---
title: Display driver R61581
---

## RenesasSP

262,144–Color, 320x480-Dot Graphics LCD Controller Driver for a-Si TFT Panel.

## Description (from datasheet)

The R61581 is liquid crystal controller driver LSI with internal frame memory for a-Si TFT panel sized 320RGB x 480-dot
at the maximum. The driver supports MIPI DBI Type B (18/16/9/8 bits) and Type C (Options 1 and 3) as system interface
to microcomputer as well as high-speed frame memory write function, enabling efficient data transfer. The R61581
supports a MDDI client as a differential small-amplitude high-speed direct interface to the MDDI host. The MDDI and the
system interface are selected by setting IM[2:0] pins.

The R61581 is also compliant with MIPI[^MIPI] DPI[^DPI] (VSYNC, HSYNC, PCLK, DE, and DB[17:0][^DBI]) for video image
display.

The R61581 incorporates step-up and voltage follower circuits to generate drive voltage required for a-Si TFT panel and
dynamic backlight control function to control backlight brightness depending on image data reducing power consumption at
the backlight with a slightest influence on the display quality.

Other features include 8-color display and power management functions, making the driver best suitable for small or
mid-sized portable devices such as digital mobile phones, small Pads and mobile TV devices. 

[^MIPI]: Mobile Industrial Processor Interface

[^DBI]: Display Bus Interface

[^DPI]: Display Pixel Interface 

!!! Note
    The MDDI supported by the R61581 is designed and produced based on the licensing of technology from Qualcomm. The
    MDDI must be adopted in the module, which incorporates a Qualcomm’s CDMA ASIC. Any claims, including, but not
    limited to the third party’s right to use the MDDI for industrial purposes shall not be accepted by Renesas
    Technology unless the above-mentioned condition is met.

## Features (from datasheet)

* Single chip driver for 262,144-color TFT 320RGB x 480-dot graphics (with internal gate and power supply circuits)
* Command set (Compliant with MIPI DCS[^DCS] Version 1.01.00)
* System interface
    * MIPI-DBI (Compliant with MIPI DBI Version 2.00)<br/>
        Type B 18/16/9/8 bits, 24 bits (dither)<br/>
        Type C 4-line 9-bit (Option 1), 8-bit (Option 3)
* Video image display interface[^1]
    * TE-I/F (MIPI DBI + TE synchronization signal output)
    * VSYNC I/F (MIPI DBI + VSYNC)
    * MIPI DPI (Compliant with MIPI DPI-2 Version 2.00)
    * MDDI (Compliant with Version 1.00)
* Abundant color display and drawing functions
    * 262,144-color display
    * Partial display function
* Low-power consumption architecture (allowing direct input of interface I/O power supply)
    * Deep standby mode
    * 8-color mode (Idle Mode)
    * Input power supply voltage:<br/>
        Interface I/O and logic power supply: IOVCC1<br/>
        MDDI: IOVCC2<br/>
        Liquid crystal analog circuit power supply: VCI
* Dynamic backlight control function
* Internal liquid crystal drive power supply circuit
    * Liquid crystal drive (source driver/VCOM): DDVDH, VREG, VCL
    * Gate drive: VGH, VGL
    * VCOM drive (common VCOM method): VCOMH, VCOML
* TFT display storage capacitance: Cst (common VCOM method)
* Internal frame memory: 345,600 bytes
* Liquid crystal display drive circuits: 960 source signal lines and 480 gate signal lines
* One-chip solution for COG module with the arrangement of gate circuits on both sides of the glass substrate
* RGB common gamma correction function
* Internal NVM (32 bits for user identification code, 7 bits for VCOM adjustment, and 5 bits for VDV):<br/>
    Rewriting data is guaranteed up to 5 times.
* Dummy pins used to fix pin to VCC or GND[^2]

[^1]:
    Japanese Patent No.3,826,159<br/> 
    Korean Patent No.747, 636<br/>
    United States Patent No. 7,176,870

[^2]:
    Japanese Patent No. 3,980,066<br/>
    Korean Patent No. 401,270<br/>
    Taiwan Patent No. 175,413<br/>
    United States Patent No. 6,323,930<br/>
    Japanese Patent No. 4,226,627<br/>
    United States Patent No. 6,924,868

[^DCS]: Display Command Set

See datasheet: [R61581.pdf](https://forums.jaspp.org.uk/release/Reference/Tontec_R61581/Tontec R61581 TRM rev. 1.20.pdf)
